PANAGIOTIS ZACHOS 

Contact Information: 

•  Phone: (+30) 6948 226 940 
•  Email: panzaxos@gmail.com 
•  LinkedIn, Scholar, Github 

EDUCATION 

•  PhD in Audio Signal Processing  

                       09/2020 – 11/2024 

Thesis Subject: Sound Perception Optimization for Headphone Listening. 
Summary: Development and optimization of algorithms that utilize auditory mechanisms 
and  advanced  digital  processing  methods  aiming  to  achieve  improved  quality  and 
naturalness in the perception of sound. 

•  Integrated Master Electrical and Computer Engineering  

           09/2014 – 08/2020 
Thesis: Sound Source Localization Using Deep Neural Networks Utilizing Binaural Cues 
           09/2011 – 06/2014 

•  4th General High School, Larisa  

WORK EXPERIENCE 

Satways Ltd. 
Senior Audio & Distributed Acoustic Sensing Engineer 
09/2025 - Present 
•  Develop detection, DoAE and classification algorithms using Φ-OTDR technologies and 

distributed sensor arrays. 

•  Design experiments involving sensor arrays (Microphones, Hydrophones, Geophones) 

and Φ-OTDR Distributed Acoustic Sensing fibers. 

•  Visualization of geospatial data (AIS, GNSS) for large-scale experiment planning. 
Audio & Distributed Acoustic Sensing Engineer 
•  Developed  sensor  arrays  of  various  configurations/geometries  for 

12/2023 – 07/2025 
long-range 

surveillance. 

•  Developed  robust  Event  Detection  and  Classification  solutions  for  sound  sources  on 
land/sea using  Φ-OTDR Distributed Acoustic Sensing  fibers and sensor arrays, using 
traditional signal/image processing and advanced AI tools. 

ITHACA Horizon Europe Project 
AI & ML Researcher 
•  Provide metrics to guarantee Trustworthy and Ethical AI. 
•  Develop  tools  about  AI  Cybersecurity,  Fairness  and  Privacy  and  a  Visualization 

06/2023 – 12/2025 

component about such tools. 

•  Development  of  Gamification  and  Argument  Visualization  systems  for  a  civic 

engagement platform 

Panagiotis Zachos - 1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
Sonova Holding AG 
Internship in Research & Development for Hearing Performance 
11/2020 – 04/2021 
•  Developed time domain signal processing features in a new architecture paradigm from 

exploration to implementation. 
•  Performed acoustic measurements. 
•  Developed tools for fast integration and verification. 
•  Contributed to the parametrization of existing signal processing functionalities. 
•  Performed hearing performance exploration and validation. 

PROMETHEUS Project 
Machine Learning Researcher for Audio-Visual Signal Processing     09/2020 – 12/2023 
•  Development of a subsystem that generates static and dynamic 3D augmented reality 

objects with interactive interfaces to be used in AR enhanced theatrical plays. 
•  Development of an intuitive GUI for directing and calibrating theatrical plays. 

SKILLS 

Audio Engineering: Digital Signal Processing, Active Noise Control, Headphone/Room 
Response Measurements, Room Equalization Wizard, Audacity, Reaper 

Technical: Distributed Acoustic Sensing (DAS), Φ-OTDR, Phased Array processing, 
Software Defined Radio (SDR) 

Programming: Python (NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, PyTorch, Tensorflow, matplotlib, parallel 
processing libraries), MATLAB, Simulink, git, C, Java, TI C6713 Assembly, C++  

Platforms: Windows, Linux (Fedora, Debian, Ubuntu) 

PUBLICATIONS 

Conference Papers 
1.  Zachos,  P.,  Moiragias,  G.,  &  Mourjopoulos,  J.  (2023,  September).  “Targeted 
Beamforming Active Noise Control Based on Disturbance Metrics”. In Forum Acusticum 
(pp. 3627-2634) 

2.  P.  Zachos  and  J.  Mourjopoulos,  “Beamforming  headphone  ANC  for  targeted  noise 

attenuation,” Audio Engineering Society Convention 154, May 2023 

3.  Zachos, P., Kamaris, G., & Mourjopoulos, J. (2022, October). “Binaural Data Reduction 
for  Robust  Sound  Source  Localization  utilizing  Convolutional  Neural  Networks  for 
Reverberant Environments”. ACOUSTICS2022, Thessaloniki, Greece. 

4.  Zachos, P., Mermigas D., & Mourjopoulos, J. (2022, October). “Large Scale Headphone 

Response Analysis and Evaluation”. ACOUSTICS2022, Thessaloniki, Greece. 

Panagiotis Zachos - 2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Chatziantoniou  P.,  Kamaris,  G.,  Kaleris  K,  Moiragias,  G.,  Zachos  P.,  Agorgianitis,  S. 
Mourjopoulos, J. (2022, October). “Evaluation of Multichannel Reproduction of 3D audio 
in a Cave Automatic Virtual Environment”. ACOUSTICS2022, Thessaloniki, Greece. 
6.  Zachos,  P.,  Kamaris,  G.,  &  Mourjopoulos,  J.  (2020,  December).  “An  Efficient  Data 
Reduction  Method  for  Binaural  Parameter  Utilization”.  In Forum  Acusticum (pp.  1953-
1960). 

Journal Papers 
1.  Zachos,  P.,  Moiragias,  G.,  &  Mourjopoulos,  J.  “Targeted  Beamforming  Active  Noise 

Control Based on Disturbance Metrics”. Acta Acustica.  

2.  Kamaris,  G.,  Zachos,  P.,  &  Mourjopoulos,  J.  (2021).  “Low  Filter  Order  Digital 
the  Audio  Engineering 

Equalization  for  Mobile  Device  Earphones”. Journal  of 
Society, 69(5), 297-308. 

3.  Zachos P., Kamaris G., Mourjopoulos J.  “Feedforward Headphone Active Noise Control 

Utilizing Auditory Masking”, Journal of the Audio Engineering Society 

4.  Zangl, M., Loi, I., Zachos, P., Bedek, M., Dimogerontakis, E., Nikolaou, C.E., Albert, D. 
and Moustakas, K., 2025. A multidisciplinary analysis of transparent AI-driven toxicity 
detection tools for civic engagement platforms. AI & SOCIETY, pp.1-18. 

5.  N. Chandrinos, I. Loi, P. Zachos, I. Symeonidis, A. Spiliotis, M. Panou, K. Moustakas, 
“Effectiveness  of  L2  Regularization  in  Privacy-Preserving  Machine  Learning”,  (Under 
Review) 

TEACHING EXPERIENCE   

•  Doctoral Teaching Assistant, University of Patras 

Procedural Programming                                                                    Feb. 2020 – Jun. 2020 
Support in lab exercises for developing robust programs written in C, using dynamic memory 
allocation and data structures. 

                                                                Feb. 2020 – Feb. 2025 
Digital Audio Technology  
Support  in  student  projects  concerning  Active  Noise  Control,  Microphone  Array  design, 
Headphone  equalization  and  3D  sound  and  lab  exercises  concerning  audio  quantization, 
quality, and analysis. 

Electroacoustics Laboratory  
                                          Oct. 2020 – Jan 2025 
Support in experimental procedures for measurements concerning electroacoustic applications. 

Communication Systems Laboratory                                                  Oct. 2020 – Feb. 2021 
Assistance in LTI communication systems lab focusing on concepts such as channel response 
and SNR calculation, AM/FM modulation, quantization, and sampling. 

Panagiotis Zachos - 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Seminar Lectures 

The Sound of Science: A dive into sound measure and hearing 
Lectures  on  sound,  physics  and  hearing,  sound  measurement  techniques  and  technologies, 
sound  perception  and  modern  audio  technology  such  as  Active  Noise  Control  systems  and 
Spatial Audio. 
•  Undergraduate Teaching Assistant, University of Patras 

Digital Signal Processing Laboratory  
                             Oct. 2018 – Feb. 2020 
Supervised  exercises  related  to  audio  applications  and  filter  design  in  the  Digital  Signal 
Processing Laboratory. 

•  Diploma Theses Support (indicative subjects) 
o  Audio signal processing for dereverberation 
o  Adaptive multi-channel equalization in a room with pseudo-anechoic conditions 
o  Large scale headphone response analysis for the design of digital filters 
o  Sound Event Detection and Localization for signals recorded by a tetrahedral 

microphone array using Machine Learning 

o  Machine Learning Active Noise Control 

PROJECTS  

YouTube Album Downloader (Github) 
              Nov 2019 
I designed a command line application written in Python to easily download full albums from 
YouTube  and  automatically  split  them  in  their  respective  songs  by  parsing  the  video 
description for song timestamps.  

Adaptive Filtering for Headphone Active Noise Control (ANC) (Github)   
  Jun 2019 
Design of 2 ANC applications utilizing adaptive filters, one with knowledge of environmental 
noise, via a microphone placed outside the headphone enclosure and one without information 
about the noise. 

Blood Pressure Monitoring System  (Github) 
  Jun 2018 
An application written in Java consisting of two parts, a Blood Pressure Monitoring device 
(Raspberry Pi) with the role of the client, and a multi-threaded Server simulating a doctor’s 
computer. The client automatically submits a patients’ measurements to the server from where 
the doctor can remotely monitor their health. 

  Jun 2018 
Intelligent Control of a ZEB with FCMs 
Design and modeling of a Zero Energy Building’s power usage and production systems. Fuzzy 
Control  Maps  were  employed  to  calculate  the  optimal  energy  balance  to  minimize  carbon 
footprint. 

Panagiotis Zachos - 4 

 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Control System and PIDF Design 
              Feb 2017 
Implementation of a transfer function (Plant) and a PIDF controller using LM741 Op-Amps. 
The design process involved performing simulations of the electrical circuits with PSpice and 
MATLAB  Simulink  to  select  the  necessary  components,  laboratory  measurements  on  the 
constructed circuit, and PCB designs for the Plant and PIDF Controller. 

 May 2015 
2048 Game Solver (Github)   
A program written in C that automatically plays the popular mobile game “2048”, deciding 
the best possible move through statistical analysis. 

HONORS & AWARDS 

2nd Place - EESTEC Challenge 
             Mar 2018  
EESTEC Challenge is an annual competition for engineering students with varying subjects. 
This competition involved processing Big Data and constructing Machine Learning models for 
planetary data. 

Euroscola Program    
     February 2013 
Got accepted into the Euroscola program by winning the local round which involved writing 
an essay  about  the democratic deficit of the EU.  During  the program  I was responsible for 
presenting a new ecological plan, devised by our team consisting of members from 5 different 
EU countries, in the European Parliament. 

1st Place – 4th Panhellenic Orchestra Competition   
 May 2006 
I was a member of the classical guitar ensemble from the ‘Gkouletsou’ conservatory, winning 
first place in the competition that took place in Piraeus University in Athens. 

LANGUAGES 

Greek: Native Language 
English: Advanced Proficiency – C2 
Spanish: Intermediate Proficiency – B2 
German: Elementary Proficiency – A2 

Panagiotis Zachos - 5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
